feat(tailwind): support v4 (#13049)
withastro/astro: .changeset/curvy-penguins-act.md

---
'@astrojs/tailwind': major
---

Drops support for Astro <= 5.0 and Tailwind <= 4.0

Tailwind CSS now offers a Vite plugin which is the preferred way to use Tailwind 4 in Astro. This Astro integration is now provided only as a convenience for existing projects if you're unable to upgrade to the Vite plugin at this time. You may continue to use this integration until it is removed.

However, we recommend that you uninstall this integration as soon as you are able. The `astro add tailwind` command will now set up the Vite plugin for you and will no longer install this integration. Or, you can follow the [Tailwind documentation for manual installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro).

> Note the `nesting` option is removed as it's supported out of the box.

Reviewer: Can we show a code example of this option being removed in a diff? Like our normal "what should I do?" advice?

Otherwise, looks great!

Author: I was lazy on that one

``````suggestion
Note the `nesting` option is removed as it's supported out of the box in Tailwind 4.0:

```diff
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'
import tailwind from '@astrojs/tailwind'

export default defineConfig({
	integrations: [tailwind({
-		nesting: true
	})]
})
```
``````

---
'@astrojs/tailwind': major
---

Deprecates the integration

> This release doesn't change how the integration behaves. However, it deprecates it since Tailwind CSS now offers a Vite plugin which is the preferred way to use Tailwind 4 in Astro. If you want to migrate, uninstall `@astrojs/tailwind` and follow the [Tailwind documentation for manual installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro).

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
Tailwind CSS now offers a Vite plugin which is the preferred way to use Tailwind 4 in Astro. Please uninstall `@astrojs/tailwind` and follow the [Tailwind documentation for manual installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro).

This updated major version is only provided as a convenience for existing projects until they are able to migrate to the new plugin. It offers no additional functionality and is no longer recommended, but may continue to be used in your projects until it is removed entirely.
```
Maybe something like this?
